# Schema Project
This folder contains the template for a Schema project.

LazyMagic generates a schema project using this template and an OpenApi speciication.

In general, any files from the template project will be copied to the 
target project, overwriting files in the target project. Then the process will generate DTOs, Models, and Validators classes from the OpenApi document.

The Schema.csproj file has special handling:
 - Renamed to match the project name. ex: EmployeeSchema.csproj
 - Overwrites the existing .csproj file if it exists.
 The csroj file imports `<Import Project="Schema.g.props" />` which contains  generated csproj properties. 
 
 The csproj file also imports `<Import Project="User.props" />` which contains  user defined csproj properties. The project template contains a User.props file, 
 but it will not be copied to the target project. The user should make changes to the  User.props file in the target project. An empty User.props file is created in the 
 target project if one does not exist.

 This SRCREADME.md file is not copied to the target project.

 In addition, the process generates DTOs, Models, and Validators classes from the OpenApi document.  Each of these generated classes have a *.g.cs extension and are partial classes. The user 
 is expcted to create a non-generated class with the same name and add additional code to the  class where needed.
 
## Limitations: 
 When the OpenApi document is updated such that a schema object is renamed or  removed, the previously generated classes will be removed. However, any user created  classes will not be removed. This prevents the loss of user code when the schema changes.  Such "user created" classes are easily identified as they will not have a corresponding  generated class.

## Usage
In general, any files you create in this project will be copied into the target project.

Do not create files with the form ```*.g.*``` as this will cause confusion with the files generated by LazyMagic.
